[MAUI] Add Maui Documentation (#37297)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/logs/log_collection/maui.md

---
title: .NET MAUI Log Collection
description: Collect logs from your .NET MAUI applications.
further_reading:
- link: https://github.com/DataDog/dd-sdk-maui
  tag: "Source Code"
  text: dd-sdk-maui source code
- link: logs/explorer
  tag: Documentation
  text: Learn how to explore your logs
---

## Overview

Send logs to Datadog from your iOS and Android applications built with .NET MAUI using [Datadog's `Datadog.Maui` client-side logging library][1] and use the following features:

* Log to Datadog in JSON format natively.
* Forward managed C# exceptions.
* Record real client IP addresses and User-Agents.
* Optimize network usage with automatic bulk posts.
* Enrich logs with global attributes, user info, and account info.

## Setup

> 1. Before sending logs, initialize the Datadog SDK by following the [.NET MAUI setup documentation][2]. The Logs feature is layered on top of the core SDK — make sure `DdSdk.Initialize` (or the `.UseDatadog(...)` builder extension) runs first.

Reviewer: suggesting to remove the implementation detail and strictly focus on instructions

```suggestion
1. Before sending logs, initialize the Datadog SDK by following the [.NET MAUI setup documentation][2]. Make sure `DdSdk.Initialize` (or the `.UseDatadog(...)`) builder extension runs before `DdLogs.Enable()`.
```

2. Enable the Logs feature.

   With the builder extension:

   ```csharp
   using Datadog.Maui;
   using Datadog.Maui.Configuration;
   using Datadog.Maui.Hosting;

   public static MauiApp CreateMauiApp()
   {
       var builder = MauiApp.CreateBuilder();
       builder
           .UseMauiApp<App>()
           .UseDatadog(new DdSdkConfiguration
           {
               ClientToken = "<CLIENT_TOKEN>",
               Environment = "<ENV_NAME>",
               TrackingConsent = TrackingConsent.Granted,{% region-param key="maui_site_config" /%}
           })
           .UseDatadogLogs();

       return builder.Build();
   }
   ```

   Or with the standalone API, call `DdLogs.Enable()` after `DdSdk.Initialize`:

   ```csharp
   using Datadog.Maui;

   DdLogs.Enable();
   ```

3. Send a log entry with one of the following methods:

   ```csharp
   DdLogs.Debug("A debug message.");
   DdLogs.Info("Some relevant information?");
   DdLogs.Warn("An important warning...");
   DdLogs.Error("An error was met!");
   ```

   Log messages are sent to the Datadog [Log Explorer][3] and appear under the service name you configured at SDK initialization.

## Enrich your logs

> Logs inherit context already set on the core SDK. You don't need to attach the same metadata to every call — set it once and every emitted log carries it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logs inherit context already set on the core SDK. You don't need to attach the same metadata to every call - set it once and every emitted log carries it.
```
